[Music]
we are very pleased to have a special
guest with us here for getting on track
Randy post Randy thanks for joining us
today my pleasure David yeah you know I
have to tell you Randy is a multiple
winner of the Daytona 24 hours race a
past speed World Challenge Series
champion with Audi half's Porsche pro
driver and currently leading in the
points in the Speed World Challenge
Touring division driving the Mazda 6
there were two or three questions I
wanted to ask you Randy that I think
kind of a really handy for street
drivers bringing streetcars to attract
first-time now this may be a little bit
of a challenge as fast as you are I'm
going to ask you to talk to the layman
not about racing but just kind of
picking up the pace and driving at that
7/10 pace on a track and starting out
what dynamics would kick in that would
be unique about driving a front-wheel
drive car on the track
David I grew up in front-wheel drive
cars and one thing I've learned actually
for any car is that what we do on the
racetrack relates very closely to
driving on the street now in a
front-drive car we've got to remember
all the powers going to the front tires
what that means is you've got to wait
until you've got the car turned before
you begin to get serious about
accelerating because when you go for the
gas you're done turning front drive cars
begin to straighten out on their own so
it better be the right time now
let's complicate things and add two more
wheels of Drive how about an all-wheel
drive system and the dynamics there it's
actually the easiest of all the
different drivetrain configurations
you're never going to have one end or
the other of the car breakaway suddenly
do the power on the other hand all-wheel
drive especially in
type cars usually tends to cause
understeer and you're dealing with
similar rules of the front-wheel drive
you've got to really be sure you've got
the car turn more than half way through
a corner before you begin to get serious
about accelerating okay now and you use
the term understeer from my
understanding that's when you turn the
wheel and nothing happens the car is
going straight right under steers when
you hit the wall with the front of a car
in other words it's not turning as much
as you want it to and understeer is the
issue that you'll find in a front drive
car and in many all-wheel-drive cars
when you're under power so if you find
you're driving the car and it won't turn
enough probably the problems down there
in your right foot you've gotten the gas
pedal too soon complicate things even
more we'll talk about rear engine
translate that Porsche 911
I love Porsche 911s and I've driven them
almost exclusively for years and the
interesting thing about driving one is
most of the weights in the back it's
almost like a front-wheel drive car
backwards and what that means is that
entering a corner especially you have a
lot of momentum in the back of the car
you've got to treat the car with a lot
of respect another thing to watch out
for in a 911 is getting the power too
early once again because when you get on
the power weight transfers back the
front tires get a little light and
they're not going to steer as well when
they're light if that happens and you
lift off the gas they come down and
you've got a problem so in a 911 it's
very important to be very smooth with
your throttle application and to be a
little bit gentle on corner entry
because there's so much momentum in the
back of the car